they did it Microsoft have built their
first Quantum Computing cubic using the
Exotic topological Quantum Computing
approach now people have been skeptical
about this approach for a long time
because it's even more difficult to
build than the other approaches to Quant
Computing which are already cuttingedge
technology but Microsoft have just built
a working topological Cubit which will
be the building block of their future
quantum computers and they also
announced another interesting claim that
they could be able to fit a million
cubits onto one chip and control them
all digitally this is significant
because you need about a million cubits
working together to be able to build a
useful con computer that can solve real
world problems at the moment people are
working with a few hundred up to about a
thousand and there's a big puzzle about
how to scale these systems up without
the Quant computers themselves getting
physically really big or having to split
them into multiple different quantum
computers that are all networked
together so Microsoft saying that they
could potentially fit a million cubits
onto a single chip is a big claim uh and
if they're right it could be a big deal
because they've solved this problem but
we have to see how things progress in
the future there's a long way from one
cubit up to a million but I'm really
interesting to see how this all develops
if you want to find out more I've got a
longer Deep dive video looking all the
different aspects of Microsoft's
topological Quant computers and
subscribe to stay up to date with the
latest in Quantum computing